The National Institution of Health (NIH) created an ecosystem of public-private partnerships, known as Accelerating Medicines Partnership
(AMP), with the primary goal of fostering research to accelerate new and effective therapies for relevant disease groups. AMP projects are
managed through the Foundation for the NIH (FNIH), NIH and AMP partners. The SysBio FAIRPlex platform aims to develop a centralized
portal and analysis tools that will enable cross-program analyses of integrated datasets to yield novel scientific insights.
Each AMP project has a variety of data offerings accessible to researchers through their specific data access framework. This introductory
guide provides an overview of data access and registration requirements among AMP programs.

Overview of AMP Projects
AMP AD
The Accelerating Medicines Partnership Alzheimer’s Disease (AMP AD) focuses on discovering new drug targets and
developing biomarkers to track disease progression and treatment response. The first phase of AMP for Alzheimer’s Disease
(AMP AD 1.0) focused on discovering new therapeutic targets and evaluating biomarkers with the second phase (AMP AD
2.0) aimed to enhance these efforts and support precision medicine approaches. Data in AMP AD is stored and curated via
the Synapse platform, which is a cloud-based Sage Bionetworks data platform. A web portal interface called the AD
Knowledge Portal is used to explore and access data in the Synapse platform. The AD Knowledge Portal distributes data
from a variety of Alzheimer's and Related Dementia programs which are not limited to AMP AD.

AMP PD
The Accelerating Medicines Partnership Parkinson’s Disease (AMP PD) focus is on identifying and validating the most
promising biological targets for therapeutics, and accelerating the development of novel therapies for Parkinson’s Disease
(PD) and other related disorders. AMP PD performed large-scale harmonization of previously collected clinical data and
analyzed biospecimens from over 10,000 subjects across nine cohorts (BioFIND, HBS, LBD, LCC, PDBP, PPMI, STEADY-PD3,
SURE-PD3, and the SN Brain Cohort). Data in AMP PD is hosted on Terra, with a public knowledge portal to explore summary
statistics of participant demographics and data offerings. AMP PD has partnered with The Global Parkinson’s Genetics
Program (GP2) and offers access to harmonized AMP AD data and federated data (GP2) through a single Data Use
Agreement. Read more here.